docs/parametrization/fourier-parametrization.md, before:

# Fourier Parametrization

The class `QAOAVariationalFourierParams` implements a heuristic proposed by Zhou et al. [1] which instead of optimizing for $\beta$ and $\gamma$ at each layer aims at finding the amplitudes of their discrete Fourier transforms given by:

$\gamma_i^{(p)} = 2 \sum_{k=0}^{q-1} u_k \sin\left[(k+1/2)(i+1)\frac{\pi}{2p}\right]$ (1)

$\beta_i^{(p)} = 2 \sum_{k=0}^{q-1} v_k \cos\left[(2k+1)i\frac{\pi}{2p}\right]$ (2)

where $i = 0,...,p$.

The idea comes from the empirical observation that the optimal parameters are often found to be smoothly varying functions for certain problems (such as the one implemented by the `QAOAVariationalAnnealingParams` class). Hence, it should be possible to use a *reduced* parameter set consisting of only the lowest $q$ frequency components of those functions. Clearly, for $q\geq p$ we have the full expressivity of the original parameter set (i.e. the $\beta$ and $\gamma$). In this parametrisation, for fixed $q$, the optimisation problem therefore becomes that of finding the optimal Fourier components $v_k$ and $u_k$. 

In [1], the authors show that certain variants of this basic Fourier parametrisation can perform significantly better than a randomised brute force search through parameter space, for MaxCut problems on 3-regular and 4-regular graphs. 

Let us once again take the cost Hamiltonian to be $H_C = 2.5 (Z_0Z_1 + Z_1Z_2 + Z_0Z_2) + 3.5 (Z_0 + Z_1 + Z_2)$ and construct a circuit of 4 layers (p=4). In the standard parametrization this would give $2*4 = 8$ variational parameters. The fourier parametrization, however, allows to work with less. Let's set $q=2$, giving only $4$ parameters to be optimized.
We can further specify the initial values of those using the custom initialization, for example with the following:

```Python
q.set_circuit_properties(p=4, q=2, param_type='fourier', init_type='custom', variational_params_dict={"u":[0.1, 0.2], "v":[0.9, 0.8]})
```
As a circuit, this looks like:

![kamada_kawai_layout](/img/circuit_fourier.png)

Let us now understand how the custom values we set for u and v translate to the rotational angles we see in the circuit above.

For example, the RX rotation between qubit 1 and 2 in the first layer is obtained by evaluating eq.(2) for i=0, p=4, q=2 and then simply multiplying by 2, as conventional. 

$ - 2 * 2 * \sum_{k=0}^{1} v_k \cos\left[(2k+1)*0*\frac{\pi}{2*4}\right]$

This simplifies nicely since $\cos(0)=1$ and we are left only with a sum over the chosen values of v which gives

$ - 2 * 2 * (0.9 + 0.8) = -6.8$

For another, a bit more involved, example let us focus on the ZZ rotation between qubits 0 and 1 in the 3rd layer. This comes from evaluating eq.(1) for i=3, p=4, q=2 and then multiplying by the weight of the quadratic term of the cost hamiltonian and by 2, as conventional. 

$2 * w_{01} * 2 * \sum_{k=0}^{1} u_k \sin\left[(k+\frac{1}{2})(3+1)\frac{\pi}{2*4}\right]$

After substituting for the weight and the parameters we chose for u and after expanding the sum, we arrive at

$2 * 2.5 * 2 * (0.1 * \sin\left[\frac{\pi}{2}(2*0 + 1)\right] + 0.2 * \sin\left[\frac{\pi}{2}(2*1 + 1)\right])$

which after simplifying gives

$10 * (0.1*\sin(\frac{\pi}{2}) + 0.2*\sin(\frac{3\pi}{2})) = 10*(0.1 - 0.2) = 10*(-0.1) = -1.0$ 

Indeed, this is what we see in the brackets next to this gate.


**NOTE**: Under the hood, we use the `Scipy` implementation of discrete cosine and sine Fourier transform of type II. 

**NOTE**: In the paper the series run from 1, while in our notation they run from 0, which changes slightly eq.(1) and eq.(2).

**NOTE**: When the fourier parametrization is initialized with `ramp`, the optimization starts from $\vec{v} = \vec{u} = [0.35, 0, 0, ..., 0]$ where the length of the vectors is $q$. This is because at a single layer, $p=1$, and no user-specified time, the standard parameters $\beta$ and $\gamma$ are 0.35.

**NOTE**: The depth of the circuit is still linear in the number of layers, $p$. The advantage is in the smaller number of variational parameters to be optimized, as long as $q \leq p$.

The class `QAOAVariationalFourierWithBiasParams` extends upon the above by allowing for an additional parameter controlling the single qubit rotations around the Z axis, analogous to what `StandardWithBiasParams` implements. 


References
----------
1. L. Zhou, S. Wang, S. Choi, H. Pichler, and M. D. Lukin, Phys. Rev. X 10, 021067 (2020)

Commit message:

fourier finished and other changed

docs/parametrization/fourier-parametrization.md, after:

# Fourier Parametrization

The class `QAOAVariationalFourierParams` implements a heuristic proposed by Zhou et al. [1] which instead of optimizing for $\beta$ and $\gamma$ at each layer aims at finding the amplitudes of their discrete Fourier transforms given by:

$\gamma_i^{(p)} = 2 \sum_{k=0}^{q-1} u_k \sin\left[(k+1/2)(i+1)\frac{\pi}{2p}\right]$ (1)

$\beta_i^{(p)} = 2 \sum_{k=0}^{q-1} v_k \cos\left[(2k+1)i\frac{\pi}{2p}\right]$ (2)

where $i = 0,...,p$.

The idea comes from the empirical observation that the optimal parameters are often found to be smoothly varying functions for certain problems (such as the one implemented by the `QAOAVariationalAnnealingParams` class). Hence, it should be possible to use a *reduced* parameter set consisting of only the lowest $q$ frequency components of those functions. Clearly, for $q\geq p$ we have the full expressivity of the original parameter set (i.e. the $\beta$ and $\gamma$). In this parametrisation, for fixed $q$, the optimisation problem therefore becomes that of finding the optimal Fourier components $v_k$ and $u_k$. 

In [1], the authors show that certain variants of this basic Fourier parametrisation can perform significantly better than a randomised brute force search through parameter space, for MaxCut problems on 3-regular and 4-regular graphs. 

Let us once again take the cost Hamiltonian to be $H_C = 2.5 (Z_0Z_1 + Z_1Z_2 + Z_0Z_2) + 3.5 (Z_0 + Z_1 + Z_2)$ and construct a circuit of 4 layers (p=4). In the standard parametrization this would give $2*4 = 8$ variational parameters. The fourier parametrization, however, allows to work with less. Let's set $q=2$, giving only $4$ parameters to be optimized.
We can further specify the initial values of those using the custom initialization, for example with the following:

```Python
q.set_circuit_properties(p=4, 
                         q=2, 
                         param_type='fourier',
                         init_type='custom',
                         variational_params_dict={
                             "u":[0.1, 0.2], 
                             "v":[0.9, 0.8]}
                         )
```

As a circuit, this looks like:

![kamada_kawai_layout](/img/circuit_fourier.png)

Let us now understand how the custom values we set for u and v translate to the rotational angles we see in the circuit above.

For example, the RX rotation between qubit 1 and 2 in the first layer is obtained by evaluating eq.(2) for i=0, p=4, q=2 and then simply multiplying by 2, as conventional. 

$ - 2 * 2 * \sum_{k=0}^{1} v_k \cos\left[(2k+1)*0*\frac{\pi}{2*4}\right]$

This simplifies nicely since $\cos(0)=1$ and we are left only with a sum over the chosen values of v which gives

$ - 2 * 2 * (0.9 + 0.8) = -6.8$

For another, a bit more involved, example let us focus on the ZZ rotation between qubits 0 and 1 in the 3rd layer. This comes from evaluating eq.(1) for i=3, p=4, q=2 and then multiplying by the weight of the quadratic term of the cost hamiltonian and by 2, as conventional. 

$2 * w_{01} * 2 * \sum_{k=0}^{1} u_k \sin\left[(k+\frac{1}{2})(3+1)\frac{\pi}{2*4}\right]$

After substituting for the weight and the parameters we chose for u and after expanding the sum, we arrive at

$2 * 2.5 * 2 * (0.1 * \sin\left[\frac{\pi}{2}(2*0 + 1)\right] + 0.2 * \sin\left[\frac{\pi}{2}(2*1 + 1)\right])$

which after simplifying gives

$10 * (0.1*\sin(\frac{\pi}{2}) + 0.2*\sin(\frac{3\pi}{2})) = 10*(0.1 - 0.2) = 10*(-0.1) = -1.0$ 

Indeed, this is what we see in the brackets next to this gate.


**NOTE**: Under the hood, we use the `Scipy` implementation of discrete cosine and sine Fourier transform of type II. 

**NOTE**: In the paper the series run from 1, while in our notation they run from 0, which changes slightly eq.(1) and eq.(2).

**NOTE**: When the fourier parametrization is initialized with `ramp`, the optimization starts from $\vec{v} = \vec{u} = [0.35, 0, 0, ..., 0]$ where the length of the vectors is $q$. This is because at a single layer, $p=1$, and no user-specified time, the standard parameters $\beta$ and $\gamma$ are 0.35.

**NOTE**: The depth of the circuit is still linear in the number of layers, $p$. The advantage is in the smaller number of variational parameters to be optimized, as long as $q \leq p$.

The class `QAOAVariationalFourierWithBiasParams` extends upon the above by allowing for an additional parameter controlling the single qubit rotations around the Z axis, analogous to what `StandardWithBiasParams` implements. 
One way to use this class is by setting the circuit properties as:
```Python
q.set_circuit_properties(p=4, 
                         q=2, 
                         param_type='fourier_w_bias',
                         init_type='custom',
                         variational_params_dict={
                             "u_pairs":[0.1, 0.2], 
                             "u_singles":[0.5, 0.6], 
                             "v":[0.9, 0.8]}
                         )
```
which leads to the following quantum circuit:

![kamada_kawai_layout](/img/circuit_fourier_w_bias.png)

Since we kept the parameters controlling $\beta$ and $\gamma$ same as before and only gave new parameters for the single qubit rotations around the Z axis, the circuits look identical apart from the RZ gates. 

**NOTE**: The number of parameters to be optimized is $3q$.

References
----------
1. L. Zhou, S. Wang, S. Choi, H. Pichler, and M. D. Lukin, Phys. Rev. X 10, 021067 (2020)
